the fire on the screens at the back of all the minds.

i suspect that no one writes so much, unless
they are narcissistic, brilliant, or mad.
but i have learned, i think, that it is better not to care;
simply be open,
and some part of the real will be along, to shake it all loose
and sift true and false back into their appointed places.
it is better to feel a truth, and live it out, and see what comes.

i had a religious experience. that is certainly a marker
of madness, but everything in my mind is reconfiguring around it.
things have shaken loose; they are settling into new places.
it is a feeling i recognize, from times of grief,
when something has been torn from the known world,
and all the things around must shift to fill the space.

but this is not quite grief.
it is violently full, hot with life, threatening to explode.
but it is not anger.

in the end, no one owns anything,
no grief, no anger,
and it's better that way.

i remember being a very young child,
fervently believing and repeating the maxim: jesus christ is lord and savior,
and feeling myself securely stitched into a broad fabric of meanings,
so vast that it could cover the earth and sky, and make it all
meaningful, explainable, and clearly owned, by someone named 'god'.

i also remember when i first glimpsed the idea that worlds
can end.
not the way that their endings are painted: even that is written down
in the pages of the bible, and breathed into words from pulpits.
it can be stitched into that great image too.
no, no, no,
i mean when the fabric itself is torn apart,
when the images crumple and fall,
when everything is different, in a way that was not and cannot
be imagined.
not an end, which implies an order,
but a pure and violent interruption of order itself.

a few impressions:

when i was five years old, i came into possession of a copy
of the "national geographic" magazine, that depicted,
in a beautifully-rendered spread, the cataclysmic geophysical changes
of the k-t extinction event, which wiped most kinds of living things
from the face of the earth. i pored over it, again and again,
i asked adults what the technical words meant, i dreamed
of the things it depicted, as i thought they might look
were the near-earth object to fall in my own back yard
(as if it were a struggle to imagine anything beyond its abstract boundary)
and i tried to understand.
how could mr. god ever be called the owner of chaos?

it troubled me to be told that time had a beginning. which was
a logical consequence of the creation myth, after all:
there is a first day, a first man, a first sin, and so on,
which raised in my mind this troubling feeling that
there must be something before.
what about on day -1?
which wasn't just an abstract trick with numbers, but the serious
and troubling feeling that nothing comes from nowhere.
something was missing, really, truly, strangely missing,
so much that i tried to describe, to my parents, every time
the feeling visited, that i felt upset, really deepy, severely upset
and could they help, because it hurt, and i didn't know what to do.
i was not successful.

i became fixated on nuclear war for the same reason.
the little library in my elementary school had a colorful picture book
illustrating the worlds nuclear arsenals, their estimated sizes,
capabilities, functions, and destructive outcomes,
explained in an emotionally neutral way
for children twelve and under.
because the important adults in my life had told me,
god will end the world,
in his way, when he is ready,
which does not seem to square with the apparently real
and precisely drawn fact that humans are calculating enough,
industrious enough, and sheerly motivated to destroy the world themselves,

to remove its skin by fire, so that no one could ever recognize its face.

and those things haunted me, vaguely as gaps where there should have been
something all along, unexplained shadows, without names, facing
on the vector of some light that didn't seem to be there.

and it's humbling to realize, but it has taken me all my life
so far
to understand what i was seeing, and what my mind,
in its simian cleverness, was trying to do.

'apocalypse' means, in some way, "to unveil" or "reveal",
which depending upon your orientation to what is true
may be catastrophic,
and if the veil on which were painted
your lords and your heavens, and even your hells
is lifted,
it is a catastrophe.

so what do you do?

you paint and hang up another,
and adjust,

and read that way, the unexplained godless catastrophes make sense:
they are just a new totalizing thought,
the refulgent face of deus irae.
