From: benjamin.schulz@veteransunited.com
To: culture@vu.com
Subject: stay with the trouble

Hi there,

I’m about to ask something very difficult. I acknowledge that, and I thank you in advance for taking the time to hear me. I know the constraints, though. It won’t surprise me if my request is politely dismissed, or even chastised. I feel the need to say something anyway. One of our values is “deliver results with integrity”. I’ve been delivering results for the company for a couple years now, and I feel that if I don’t speak what’s weighing on me, then I won’t be acting with integrity.

I want to know where the company stands in this moment of history. Governor Mike Parsons signed a bill into law on Friday that clearly communicates who the State government believes we, the people of Missouri, are. I want to know if the company agrees. I know that’s hard, because “the company” is a lot of different people, with different lives, and different voices. I know they don’t all see things the same way. But “integrity” means principled action, and principled action requires taking a position in times of conflict. I’m hoping to see that from our company.

The decision that our government has been made affects a lot of people -- so many people that we're all a part of it, whether we want to participate or not. We can be silent, shrug it off, or deflect the issue, but the impact is still there. We could avoid the issue. We haven't yet -- but we could. If that happens, though, we communicate that "this is acceptable" -- which, for some of us, it might be -- but without any of the accountability that comes from actually taking a position. Is it acceptable? If it is, let's say so. Is it unacceptable? Then let's say that instead.

To be fair, I've avoided issues too. This isn't the first episode in my time at VU where I thought about writing this email. Maybe I should have done it a lot sooner. But VU is the first place I've worked where I would have even considered it. Why? Because I look around at all the great people we work with, and I think, "This is different. These folks say they care, and they seem to actually mean it. Someone might listen." Which is why I'm taking the risk of asking you for this very difficult thing: the company's position.

I wanted to keep this message short, but this is serious. We don't talk often, and I want to make my point vivid, while I have your ear. The all-group sessions from earlier this year left something of an impression on me, and so, in the interest of making my point, I'd like try my hand at the genre. If you'll indulge a little more reading, please consider two contrasting stories of owned consequence. The theme is "staying with the trouble."

###

The first story is that of Alfried Krupp. Krupp inherited his position in the massive German industrial firm, Krupp AG, from his mother. Aflried, though, was quite accomplished in his own right. He wrote an engineering thesis in metallurgy. He won an Olympic medal in yacht sailing. He was also one of the people most responsible for building the massive war machine wielded by the Third Reich in the Second World War. After the war, Krupp was tried and convicted of crimes against humanity at Nuremberg. Krupp always denied guilt, and in a transcript of the trial, went on to state directly that he felt that civic matters were beneath his concern:

"We Krupps never cared much about ideas. We only wanted a system that worked well and allowed us to work unhindered. Politics is not our business."

I've always found Krupp's bloodless dismissal of his own guilt to be chilling. Even if he had not lead the industrial juggernaut that armed the Nazi empire, even if he really meant no wrong by anything he did, it's truly disturbing to consider his breezy lack of concern for the ideological and visceral horrors that unfolded in his time.

The second story is that of Jack Kirby. Kirby was easily one of the most prodigious creative minds of the American 20th Century. He's probably most widely known for his co-creation (with Joe Simon) of the character Captain America, and for his pivotal role in the success of Marvel Comics in the 1960s. Kirby's long career spanned the Second World War, and he was drafted during the fighting. After the Allied landing at Normandy, he spent two years as an infantry scout in the advance toward Berlin, where he witnessed destruction and death at nightmare scales. (Some of it, almost certainly, wrought by armaments of Krupp manufacture.) Kirby's wartime experiences impressed him deeply, and his life's work rings with stark declarations of his own views of violence versus peace, and freedom versus coercion. Kirby's work wasn't always popular, though. The first issue of Captain America was published in 1941, before that year's infamous attack on Pearl Harbor, and before the U.S. had actually entered the war. The cover depicted Kirby's hero punching Adolf Hitler in the face -- which drew hundreds of complaints and even threats from a then-sizable faction of Americans who felt that Hitler was a respectable head of state, and that the Third Reich posed no threat. Kirby's biographer recounts one episode in which angry readers actually gained entry to the lobby of the artists' studio, and phoned up to Kirby's desk, saying "There are three of us down here in the lobby. We want to see the guy who does this disgusting comic book and show him what real Nazis would do." Kirby put down his pencil, literally rolled up his sleeves and went downstairs, only to find that the callers had fled.

Kirby could have channeled Krupp and said, "Good sir, I don't trouble myself with the subject matter of the comics; I just operate the pencil." Or maybe: "I know European politics are a divisive matter right now, but let's just agree to disagree." Or he could have just hung up the phone and tried to keep working. But he didn't. He owned up to what was his, and was willing to show his face even to people who hated him for it.

###

I don't think we're Alfried Krupp. I really don't. But I think that, with inattention, anyone can become that. It matters what you stand for, and what you don't. I'd like us to be Jack Kirby. Which means that I hope we'll stand up for something.

The State of Missouri is very clearly choosing a particular path. That means that all of us citizens of Missouri -- including most of VU -- are impacted by this decision. I want to know whether this impact is one that the company will stand for.

Thanks for taking the time to hear me. I hope you'll consider what I've asked.

Regards,

\0
